15 L of water that's the minimum amount
one person needs per day for drinking
washing and cooking according to the
World Health Organization but the
average household in the city of Rafa in
Gaza is believed to have access to just
one liter of water a day that's
according to UNICEF Israel launched a
military operation in Gaza last year in
response to the October the 7th attacks
we analyzed over 600 water and
sanitation facilities across Gaza and
found that more than half of them have
been damaged or destroyed since then the
Red Dot on this map represent the
facilities affected the majority in the
northern area and hanun we also looked
at damage to gaz's wastewater treatment
plants which are crucial to preventing
the buildup of sewage and spread of
disease most have been damaged like this
one or destroyed residents in Gaza told
us they are queuing for hours to access
drinking water some people we spoke to
said drinking polluted water is now
their only option